---
layout: post
title: "Day 6 – Research Labs & Familiarization with Research Topic"
date: 2025-06-03
author: Fikewa Akindolire
permalink: /day6.html
tags: ["GitHub","Satellite Data", "Urban Air Pollution Research Articles", "Carbon Emissions", "PM 2.5", "Research Labs"]

what_i_learned: |
    Today in the lab, we began with a short lecture from our graduate mentor, who explained what it means to monitor urban air pollution and 
    introduced key concepts like spatial-temporal variation—the idea that pollution levels change depending on the time of day and location. 
    For instance, pollution peaks during high human activity (like daytime traffic) and drops at night. We also learned that air pollution stems 
    from both human-made (anthropogenic) sources like vehicles and factories, and natural ones like dust storms and volcanic activity. After the 
    lecture, each of us presented our findings from two research articles we were assigned to review. I learned more about harmful pollutants such as
    CO₂, sulfates, volcanic ash, and various forms of carbon. My first article highlighted the power of satellite data in monitoring air quality, 
    showing how it fills the gaps left by ground stations and tracks pollutants like NO₂, SO₂, and PM2.5 globally. The second article focused on          India’s air pollution crisis and how AI and deep learning models are being used to accurately forecast PM2.5 levels, even though regulatory and       enforcement challenges remain. We wrapped up by compiling our articles into a shared Google Drive. 

blockers: |
    I had a bit of trouble accessing our shared google drive, but with the help of my group mates I was able to find it and upload my research
      articles. 

reflection: |
    It felt great to be back in the lab and connect more deeply with my peers. Presenting our research and hearing everyone’s insights made the             learning experience feel real and collaborative. I enjoyed learning how air pollution is not just a science issue, but also tied to human             activity and policy. It was eye-opening to see how powerful satellite data and AI can be in understanding and addressing these problems. Today        reminded me why this research matters—and made me feel more confident and excited to keep exploring it with my group.


